
1. RTC framework data structures
    There are three main data structures used by the RTC framework in Linux systems. They are the strcut rtc_time, struct rtc_device, and struct rtc_class_ops structures.

    The first is an opaque structure that represents a given date and time
    struct rtc_time {
        int tm_sec; /* seconds after the minute */
        int tm_min; /* minutes after the hour - [0, 59] */
        int tm_hour; /* hours since midnight - [0, 23] */
        int tm_mday; /* day of the month - [1, 31] */
        int tm_mon; /* months since January - [0, 11] */
        int tm_year; /* years since 1900 */
        int tm_wday; /* days since Sunday - [0, 6] */
        int tm_yday; /* days since January 1 - [0, 365] */
        int tm_isdst; /* Daylight saving time flag */
    };

    The second structure represents the physical RTC device.
    struct rtc_device {
        struct device dev;
        struct module *owner;
        int id;
        char name[RTC_DEVICE_NAME_SIZE];
        const struct rtc_class_ops *ops;
        struct mutex ops_lock;
        struct cdev char_dev;
        unsigned long flags;
        unsigned long irq_data;
        spinlock_t irq_lock;
        wait_queue_head_t irq_queue;
        struct rtc_task *irq_task;
        spinlock_t irq_task_lock;
        int irq_freq;
        int max_user_freq;
        struct work_struct irqwork;
    };
    - dev : This is the device structure
    - owner :This is the module that owns the RTC device. Using THIS_MODULE will be enough.
    - id : This is the global index given to the RTC device by the /dev/rtc<id> kernel
    - name : This is the name given to the RTC device
    - ops : This is a set of operations exposed by this RTC device to be managed by the core or from the user space
    - ops_lock : This is a mutex used internally by the kernel, to protect ops function calls.
    - cdev : This is the char device associated to this RTC, /dev/rtc<id>

    The last one represents a set of operations exposed by the driver, and is used by the RTC core to read/update a device's date/time/alarm.
    struct rtc_class_ops {
        int (*open)(struct device *);
        void (*release)(struct device *);
        int (*ioctl)(struct device *, unsigned int, unsigned long);
        int (*read_time)(struct device *, struct rtc_time *);
        int (*set_time)(struct device *, struct rtc_time *);
        int (*read_alarm)(struct device *, struct rtc_wkalrm *);
        int (*set_alarm)(struct device *, struct rtc_wkalrm *);
        int (*read_callback)(struct device *, int data);
        int (*alarm_irq_enable)(struct device *, unsigned int enabled);
    };
- RTC API
    The device is built and registered with the kernel using the rtc_device_register() or devm_rtc_device_register function:

    struct rtc_device *rtc_device_register(const char *name, struct device *dev, 
    const struct rtc_class_ops *ops, struct module *owner) 

    struct rtc_device *devm_rtc_device_register(struct device *dev, const char *name, const struct rtc_class_ops *ops, struct module *owner)

    The meanings of the parameters of the are as follows:
    - name : This is your RTC device name
    - dev : This is the parent device
    - ops : This is your RTC ops
    - owner :This is the module to which the RTC device belongs. In most cases, THIS_MODULE is enough.

    The associated reverse operations are rtc_device_unregister() or devm_ rtc_device_unregister():

    void rtc_device_unregister(struct rtc_device *rtc) 

    void devm_rtc_device_unregister(struct device *dev, struct rtc_device *rtc)

    - Reading and setting time.

    - Playing with alarms.
2. RTCs and user space
- The sysfs interface
    An RTC device will create a rtc<id> directory under /sys/class/rtc
    - date : This file prints the current date of the RTC interface
    cat /sys/class/rtc/rtc0/date

    - time : This prints the current time of the RTC
    cat /sys/class/rtc/rtc0/time

    - hctosys : This attribute indicates whether the RTC device is the one specified in CONFIG_RTC_HCTOSYS_DEVICE, meaning that this RTC is used to set the system time on startup and resume. Read 1 as true, and 0 as false:
    cat /sys/class/rtc/rtc0/hctosys

    - dev : This attribute shows the device's major and minor. Read as major:minor
    cat /sys/class/rtc/rtc0/dev

    - since_epoch : This attribute will print the number of seconds elapsed since the UNIX epoch
    cat /sys/class/rtc/rtc0/since_epoch
    
- The hwclock utility